
DevNet IoT Produces Portable IR Thermal-Scanner
Leveraging the Cisco IR829 Router to Create a Portable Temperature Screener
Alexander Stevenson

Who
----

Hello there, I'm Alexander Stevenson, a Cisco Devnet Engineer and IoT Team member. 
I'm based out of Austin, Texas, although our team is mostly divided between 
San Jose and Austin, with some members (Florian and Geev),based in Europe and Asia, respectively.

What
----

This project, with approval and guidance from managers Paul Zimmerman and Jock Reed, started as a 
research mission to determine the feasability of deploying IR Thermal cameras on an Edge device and
managing them remotely. First, we determined the market lacks hand-held Commercial Off the Shelf 
(COTS) temperature scanners, except those which are a) battery-operated b) designed for industrial
use (not for body temperature) 3) unable to connect either wired or wirelessly (save for a few models
which have Bluetooth connectivity only)

Our initial specificatons included:

1) Portable. The entire sytstem (scanner, router, display and power source) should be able to be
transported in a personal carrying case and operated wherever a power outlet and celular signal are present.

2) Use a Raspberry Pi 4 and an incorporated IT Thermal Camera to collect temperature

3) Extend the range of the thermal data collection by hosting software in the IR829's IOx VM, which
will deploy and manage the Thermal Camera and collect dta from it.

4) Create a basic case to house the Rapberry Pi, thermal camera, IR829 and associated peripherals.

When
----
This project was started in response to the COVID-19 pandemic in the Spring of 2020.

Why
---
It's economically prohibitive for most people and small businesses to screen people for the main
measurable symptom of COVID-19, which is temperature. The current IR Temperature scanners on the market
are neither network nor power connectable and are not calibrated to measure human body temperature.

How
---

1. Purchase a Raspberry Pi. I purchased a raspberry Pi 4B from Labists, it inlcuded heat-sinks, a casex
as well as extra wires. Raspian was already preloaded onto the SIM card included in the set.

2. Set up the Pi with a monitor. keyboard and mouse. Harden your Raspberry Pi now.

3. Purchase an MLX90640 IR Thermal Sensor. Adafruit is probably the most well-know distributor, but they
were all sold out. I ended up ordering mien from E-Bay for around......

4. Research and test various software, in different lanuages, to run the IR Thermal Cam and display
accurate temperature readings on the monitor.


